if you are one of the many people who
deal with acne on a continuous basis
you know the embarrassment it can cause
most often it is a problem that is a
telltale sign of hormonal changes due to
adolescence but adults can deal with
acne as well in fact there can be many
variables such as skin type and hormone
levels associated with individual types
of acne research has shown that the four
main causes of acne are excess oil
clogged pores bacteria and inflammation
heredity hormones menstruation and
emotional stress can trigger or make
acne worse dermatologists recommend that
patients with acne should wash their
face twice daily with a gentle cleanser
to remove excess oil patients should
also avoid excess cleansing harsh
cleansers and hot water as they can
irritate skin and worsen acne don't
suffer with the effects of acne the
Georgia dermatology center offers custom
treatment plans for acne consisting of
topical medications and other special
treatments the Clarisonic brush uses
sonic technology to remove dirt and oil
from your pores to clean softened and
smooth your skin it cleans more than
twice as effectively and remove six
times more makeup than manual cleansing
it even helps to reduce the appearance
of visible pores and fine lines and
wrinkles the Clarisonic brush is also
great for acne prone skin this facial
brush lifts impurities from the skin
with a sonic motion that vibrates 300
times a minute it is waterproof and
works great in the shower cysts are
non-cancerous pockets of tissue that can
be filled with pus fluid or other
material cysts develop on the skin as a
result of infection clogged oil glands
or exposure to a foreign material such
as a piercing those skin cysts are
usually painless while under the skin
they can cause pain when ruptured or
infected common treatments persists
include draining cortisone injection or
surgical removal if you have a skin cyst
make an appointment with the Georgia
dermatology center to find out the right
course of action for you eczema is a
term used to generally describe any type
of itchy rash or dermatitis symptoms
vary from person to person but often
include
wry red or itchy patches on the skin
which break out in rashes when scratched
psoriasis is a chronic skin disorder
that causes scaling and crusting of the
skin
the most commonly affected areas are the
scalp elbows knees hands and feet
psoriasis cannot be cured but can be
treated successfully patients who suffer
from eczema or psoriasis should avoid
using household products that can
irritate the skin like fragrant
detergents fabric softeners and dryer
sheets in addition many daily activities
contribute to the stripping of natural
body oils which leads to excessive
dryness dry skin only intensifies eczema
and psoriasis so pass up those hot
showers and baths and only use gentle
cleansers rosacea is a chronic skin
disease that causes redness flushing and
swelling on the face while the cause is
still unknown certain triggers can cause
rosacea to flare up emotional stresses
anxiety and even changes in the weather
can aggravate the condition other
factors may include exercise alcohol
consumption and spicy foods early
diagnosis from a board-certified
dermatologist is the best defense
against rosacea delay in treatment may
result in more severe symptoms that are
harder to treat treatment options will
be determined after an examination and
may include laser treatment or oral and
topical medications
you